All the clashes, all the problems of human
beings are because they are not what they talk,
ideals are out, out of their life.
That is how a Sahaja Yogi will show himself
off compared to anybody else.
Take an example say of Abraham Lincoln, all
right?
Abraham Lincoln believed that everybody must
have freedom
and the government should be for the public, for the people.
Whatever He talked He practised it.
Whatever He believed in He worked it out
and gave His life for it,
that’s why He’s a great man.
Think of Mahatma Gandhi, they
were not like Christ – incarnations.
Think of any great man, think of Shivaji Maharaj,
any one of the saints – they were human beings.
But once they knew this is the
principle on which we have to live,
they become one with the principles, they do not compromise.
So what Sahaja Yogi has to be that we should understand.
A Sahaja Yogi is a person who has got Realization
through the Kundalini,
and Kundalini is the motherhood in you,
is the caring, nourishing power within you.
But mother will never compromise with the son;
if he wants to kill somebody she’ll say: "No".
I mean a real mother.
She will even shoot that son who tries to do wrong things.
In the same way if you become the mother of
yourself, then you have to look after yourself,
in the same manner that you nourish yourself
and all others also,
you have to nourish them, care for them,
and do not compromise with wrong
doings, unrighteousness things, absurd things.
Now when I tell you this it is not
necessary for you to feel guilty.
We have to look upward.
Those who are standing even on a lower staircase,
if they are looking upward they are all right,
but those who are standing at a higher steps,
and looking downward, will go down.
So look forward.
What we have to do in our day-to-day life
in simple relationships even husband, wife,
children, parents – are you becoming silent
within yourself?
Are you nourishing it, with your silence,
with your compassion,
or you are supporting something that is absolutely anti-God?
If you become the ideals, the power of ideals
itself, will make you so dynamic
that you don’t need to consult
anybody, you become the ideal.
They are like torches.
Your ideals itself will be enlightened.
So the first attitude should be:
“How do we deepen ourselves?”
That should be first attitude.
So in your meditations you have to sit down.
Now what do you say in meditation?
Try to see all the chakras.
What chakras are catching, face it yourself.
These might be from your past life.
Some chakras are weak.
Try to make them all right, try to strengthen
them.
Because ideals have to be worked out the instrument
has to be all right.
If the instrument is a crazy one how will you do?
So first of all you must develop your instrument
properly, it should be balanced,
powerful, not cowardly.
People should feel your power.
Of course the power is of love,
but love doesn’t
mean that you compromise with all the nonsensical things.
There should be no compromise at all.
It’s a very self-certifying state.
We cannot say when it is so, we just cannot say.
Itself the state will certify that I’m all
right now, I have reached that state.
We cannot say after five hours, three
minutes, two seconds you’ll become that.
You just mature and you see that maturity within you.
Once you understand that unless and until you
become your ideals
you are not a Sahaja Yogi.
Everybody can call themselves Sahaja Yogis,
there’s not inauguration,
we don’t have any sort of a – inauguration of a
university
where people can come and get their degrees
and diplomas: “All right you are certified twice born".
There are some who are several times twice born.
They are twice born today, tomorrow they are not,
then again they come twice born
and again twice born.
Some of them can be one hundred and eight
times twice born in Sahaja Yoga.
And even then they are not certified.
So you have to give yourself a certificate.
There’s no university to do that.
You have to understand yourself, what are
your problems, why you are behaving like this?
You treat yourself as a child.
When it is needed you have to rebuke yourself.
When you have to glorify, you should glorify yourself.
So now you separate.
You become the mother, the Spirit is the mother,
and you, whatever you are which has to grow, is the child.
Mother is the ideal, she is the inspiration,
she is the power, and the child is the recipient.
If the child is an obstinate fellow then you
can’t do anything about it.
Also find out – you might be one of them.
I know who are they like that.
There are many and you can find them out in no time.
Obstinate fellows, if they live with ten people
suddenly we hear reports of their existence.
They are quite eloquent even if they are not
talking a word people can tell you:
“I had a fight with such and such.
That person said such and such a thing to
me, that person was so cruel to me,
that person demanded this.
You know which person it is, where.
You see as a diamond can be made
out, thorns can be made out also.
Anytime you go near the thorn, anyone
without exception, it will bite everyone.
It is not going to spare, it’s a thorn.
So a thorn has to be a thorn.
But if you are a Sahaja Yogi you have to be
a flower and a strong flower
and an eternal flower, that always grows, does not fade out.
Always growing, never fades, such a flower
you have to be,
then you will be surprised that
you do not get into a trip of ego,
neither you go into a complete collapse of super-ego.
So much you know that any one of you
can be called as a scholar I can tell you.
I mean so many times people have asked Me:
“Are they all scholars that You have – Your Disciples?”
You know so much, much more than
any Saint ever knew. I can assure you.
But you know only in the brain, outside.
It’s all bla bla bla.
It comes to the brain, you use it to show
off to others, and finished.
It doesn’t even settle down there,
then how will it go to the heart?
So everybody is talking big, they can impress people.
I mean if some journalists come here they’ll
be so impressed by the Sahaja Yogis,
so many wise men in England sitting down here.
But you laugh at yourself.
You have known all this because I’ve been speaking too much.
Also the Spirit is shining.
Let your Spirit shine in such a way
that people know this is a man who is completely integrated:
the Spirit, the talk, the behavior,
the life itself is completely integrated
and this is what is Sahastrara.
So if there is no integration you
have not achieved your Sahastrara.
There will be no need to pull your ears.
A day should come when you all will raise
your heads with great pride and glory
because your ideals will shine like ornaments.
I want to see those days when all those who
claim to be Sahaja Yogis become that.
That’s the most important
thing, all other things are useless.
Getting an ashram, getting this,
doing this, doing that – forget it.
What you have to manage is this child which has to
grow,
who is still naughty sometimes, tries to misbehave.
Now put it right.
You give it a name.
You call yourself a Sahaja
Yogi and that child as Mr. X, Mr. Y
whatever your name has been and always try
to tell: “Now will you behave yourself".
"Get up in the morning, have
your bath, sit down for meditation."
“I feel lazy,” the child says, “I can’t."
Then you accept the child, then the child will become
the mother and you will be losing your powers.
Excuses!
The child knows, very intelligent, it’s
a very clever child,
extremely intelligent, knows how to deceive you.
But the child also knows innately what it needs.
If it comes to know that the mother in you
has developed that personality,
then it accepts mother’s personality.
But if the child knows the mother herself is
weak then he starts taking advantage of the mother.
So you have to not fight yourself but to tame.
And this is very easy. You’ll
start enjoying it, looking at yourself:
“Oh Mr. so and so."
Then you won’t be angry.
“I know how to handle you, you’re hiding
behind there, all right,  giving excuses.
” And the child grows big, so big
that mother sees that and is amazed.
Like in Shri Krishna’s childhood, the Mother was
Yeshoda
and the child was Shri Krishna. It’s very symbolic.
And He used to play very naughty tricks
and She said: “You went and ate that
mud from there. I know you have eaten.
” He said: “How can I eat, how can
I, I can’t even go out of the house.
I’m sitting down here.
Where is the mud?
How can I eat?”
“You did eat, I know you have eaten, so
better show me your mouth.”
He says: “Really?” and then the mouth
opens and the complete Vishwa Swarup,
complete vision of the whole Vishwa
She sees and the Mother falls at His Feet.
That’s what it should be.
This mother has to fall at the
feet of the child that has grown.
Very symbolic.
That is how you have to grow, into that Vishwa
Swarup.
Into that Collective Being, into that Virata.
Arjuna and Shri Krishna is another very good
symbolic thing.
Arjuna was a friend who used to take liberties
with Shri Krishna.
Shri Krishna tried to tell him about Gita,
all these things.
But still Shri Krishna could not convince
him of that.
All these were just outside “bla bla bla’s”;
as Mother’s talks are.
Mother’s talks are very entertaining you
know very humorous, nice to hear them,
instead of listening to any music better to hear Mother’s
talks.
And then the people think if they are listening
to Mother they have become Mother already.
That’s it happened to Arjuna also but still he
found out that there’s something lacking in him,
that he has not become the ideal. Still his
attention is not there as it should have been.
So he asked Shri Krishna:
“I think I’ll see your great image.”
Krishna said: “All right are you prepared?”
He said “Yes, I am prepared.”
And then He became the Virata, the vision
of the Virata and when he saw it, he said:
“Stop it, it is too much for me.”
That’s what should happen to your friend
who is this child.
That it should become that Virata and when
you see that,
should be amazed at yourself:
“Oh God, I have grown like this.”
Just like Yeshoda falling at the feet
of the little child,
you have to fall at the feet
of the child that is within you.
I am sure this will happen now.
So remember that no argument, no explanation.
Mother is forgiving. She’ll forgive
you everything, you know that.
Anything you do I’ll forgive you, even if
you murder Me I’ll forgive you,
but you won’t be able to forgive yourself.
So allow that child to grow, grow fully.